Document no-code APIs (#330)
hashicorp/terraform-docs-common: website/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/no-code-provisioning.mdx

---
page_title: No-Code Provisioning - API Docs - Terraform Cloud
description: >-

>   Use these endpoints to control availability of no-code provisioning and designate variable values for your organization.

Reviewer: With the context from before, how would you feel about:
```suggestion
  Use these endpoints to control availability of no-code provisioning and designate variable values for a no-code module in your organization.
```

>   Use these endpoints to control availability of no-code provisioning and appropriate variable values for your organization.

Reviewer: Also, on second glance are we designation variables for your organization or for variables within individual no-code modules in your organization?

>   Use these endpoints to control availability of no-code provisioning and appropriate variable values for your organization.

Author: The variables values that you define are scoped to both a TFC organization and to a specific no-code module. In a 2nd organization, you'd go through the same process again. I think that "designate" is still a great word choice.

>   Use these endpoints to control availability of no-code provisioning and appropriate variable values for your organization.

Reviewer: That makes so much sense; thank you for the explanation!

tfc_only: true
---

[200]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/200

[201]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/201

[202]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/202

[204]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/204

[400]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/400

[401]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/401

[403]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/403

[404]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/404

[409]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/409

[412]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/412

[422]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/422

[429]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/429

[500]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/500

[504]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/504

[JSON API document]: /terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#json-api-documents

[JSON API error object]: http://jsonapi.org/format/#error-objects

# No-Code Provisioning API

> The No-Code Provisioning API allows you to establish and configure a list of Terraform Modules that can be used in No-Code Provisioning workflows within your Terraform Cloud organization. For more information, see our documentation on [designing no-code-ready modules](/terraform/cloud-docs/no-code-provisioning/module-design) and [provisioning no-code infrastructure](/terraform/cloud-docs/no-code-provisioning/provisioning).

Author: 🤦 I am so bad about passive voice.

## Allow No-Code Provisioning of a Module within an Organization

`POST /organizations/:organization_name/no-code-modules`

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization where no-code provisioning workflows should be allowed for this module.  |

> Each Terraform Cloud organization has a list of which modules you can use to establish workspaces using no-code provisioning. You can use this API to enable no-code provisioning for a specific module. You can also use this API to set variable values that are allowed within the scope of your organization.

Reviewer: Slight further tweak suggested based for clarity:
```suggestion
Each Terraform Cloud organization has a list of which modules you can use to establish workspaces using no-code provisioning. You can use this API to enable no-code provisioning for a specific module. You can also use this API to set options for the allowed values of a variable for a no-code module in your organization.
```

-> **Note:** This endpoint cannot be accessed with [organization tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens#organization-api-tokens). You must access it with a [user token](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/users#api-tokens) or [team token](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens#team-api-tokens).

| Status  | Response                                     | Reason                                                         |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "no-code-modules"`) | Successfully enabled a module for No-Code Provisioning                                    |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Not found, or user unauthorized to perform action |
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Malformed request body (missing attributes, wrong types, etc.) |

> | [500][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Internal system failure                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [500][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Internal system failure.                                   |
```

### Request Body

This POST endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

Properties without a default value are required.

Key path | Type   | Default | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
`data.type` | string | | Must be `"no-code-modules"`.

> `data.attributes.version-pin` | string   |  | The version of the module that should be used in No-Code Provisioning workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`data.attributes.version-pin` | string   |  _latest version of module_  | The version of the module that should be used in No-Code Provisioning workflows.
```

Author: Just matching formatting from elsewhere here. 

```suggestion
`data.attributes.version-pin` | string   |  (latest version of the module) | The version of the module that should be used in No-Code Provisioning workflows.
```

> `data.attributes.enabled` | boolean   |  | Set to `true` in order to enable No-Code Provisioning workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`data.attributes.enabled` | boolean   |  `false`  | Set to `true` in order to enable No-Code Provisioning workflows.
```

  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/no-code-modules
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "nocode-9HE91XDNY3faePn2",
    "type": "no-code-modules",
    "attributes": {
      "enabled": true,
      "version-pin": "1.0.1"
    },
    "relationships": {
      "organization": {
        "data": {
          "id": "hashicorp",
          "type": "organizations"
        },
        "links": {
          "related": "/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp"
        }
      },
      "registry-module": {
        "data": {
          "id": "mod-2aaFrmRPZs2N9epr",
          "type": "registry-modules"
        },
        "links": {
          "related": "/api/v2/registry-modules/mod-2aaFrmRPZs2N9epr"
        }
      },
      "variable-options": {
        "data": [
          {
            "id": "ncvaropt-fcHDfnZ1EGdRzFNC",
            "type": "variable-options"
          },
          {
            "id": "ncvaropt-dZMfdh9KBcwFjyv2",
            "type": "variable-options"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/no-code-modules/nocode-9HE91XDNY3faePn2"
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Update No-Code Provisioning settings for a module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update No-Code Provisioning Settings for a Module
```

`PATCH /no-code-modules/:id`

Parameter | Description
--- | ---
`:id` | The unique identifier for a No-Code-Allowed module.

> Use this API to update the settings for No-Code Provisioning of a module. You can use this API to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this API to update the settings for the no-code provisioning of a module. You can use this API to:
```

- Enable or disable No-Code Provisioning using this module

> - Make adjustments to the set of allowed variable values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adjust the set of options for allowed variable values
```

> - Change the version of the module used during provisioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change the module version being provisioned
```

- Change the module being provisioned

> The [API call that enables for no-code provisioning for a module](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-within-an-organization) returns that module's unique identifier.

Reviewer: Oops this one is my bad:
```suggestion
The [API call that enables no-code provisioning for a module](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-within-an-organization) returns that module's unique identifier.
```

Author: I was just coming back to fix that !

> - Change the module that is used during provisioning

Reviewer: I think this is still correct and it feels more direct:
```suggestion
- Change the module being provisioned
```

> The unique identifier for the No-Code-Allowed module was returned in the response to [the API call that initially enabled the module for No-Code Provisioning](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-for-an organization).

Reviewer: It feels like this sentence is a bit out of place? As in it should be closer to the table above? Also, maybe we can remove this sentence all together in favor of adding this link to the **Description** column above?

Author: ```suggestion
```

I'd suggest we just remove it? I don't know if the link is even worth trying to squeeze into the table... it perhaps just doesn't need to be said?

Author: ```suggestion
The [API call that enables for no-code provisioning for a module](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-within-an-organization) returns that module's unique identifier.
```

-> **Note:** This endpoint cannot be accessed with [organization tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens#organization-api-tokens). You must access it with a [user token](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/users#api-tokens) or [team token](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens#team-api-tokens).

| Status  | Response                                     | Reason                                                         |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "no-code-modules"`) | Successfully updated a no-code module                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "no-code-modules"`) | Successfully updated a no-code module.                                    |
```

> | [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Not found, or user unauthorized to perform action |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Not found or the user is unauthorized to perform this action |
```

> | [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Malformed request body (missing attributes, wrong types, etc.) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Malformed request body (e.g., missing attributes, wrong types, etc.) |
```

> | [500][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Internal system failure                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [500][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Internal system failure.                                   |
```

### Request Body

This PATCH endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

Properties without a default value are required.

Key path | Type | Default | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
`data.type` | string | | Must be `"no-code-modules"`.

> `data.attributes.version-pin` | string   |  | The version of the module that should be used in No-Code Provisioning workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`data.attributes.version-pin` | string   |  _previous value_  | The version of the module that should be used in No-Code Provisioning workflows.
```

> `data.attributes.version-pin` | string   | (previous value) | The version of the module that should be used in No-Code Provisioning workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`data.attributes.version-pin` | string   | (previous value) | The module version to use in no-code provisioning workflows.
```

> `data.attributes.enabled` | boolean   |  | Set to `true` in order to enable No-Code Provisioning workflows of `false` to disable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`data.attributes.enabled` | boolean   |   _previous value_   | Set to `true` in order to enable No-Code Provisioning workflows or `false` to disable.
```

> `data.attributes.enabled` | boolean   | (previous value) | Set to `true` in order to enable No-Code Provisioning workflows of `false` to disable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`data.attributes.enabled` | boolean   | (previous value) | Set to `true` to enable no-code provisioning workflows, or `false` to disable them.
```

`data.relationships.registry-module.data.id` | string | (previous value) | The ID of a module in the organization's Private Registry.
`data.relationships.registry-module.data.type` | string | (previous value) | Must be `"registry-module"`.

> `data.relationships.variable-options.data[].id` | string | (new value) | The ID of an existing variable-options set. If set, the existing options with this ID will be replaced. If unset, a new variable-option set will be created.

Reviewer: I found "If set" a little unclear, could we use "if provided" instead to be even more explicit?
```suggestion
`data.relationships.variable-options.data[].id` | string | (new value) | The ID of an existing variable-options set. If provided, a new variable-options set replaces the set with this ID. If not provided, this creates a new variable-option set.
```

> `data.relationships.variable-options.data[].type` | string | | Must be `"variable-options"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`data.relationships.variable-options.data[].type` | string | | Must be `"variable-options"`.
```

`data.relationships.variable-options.data[].attributes.variable-name` | string | | The name of a variable within the module.
`data.relationships.variable-options.data[].attributes.variable-type` | string | | The data type for the variable. Can be [any type supported by Terraform](/terraform/language/expressions/types#types).

> `data.relationships.variable-options.data[].attributes.options` | Any[] | | A list of allowed values for the variable.

Reviewer 2: Any suggestions on how to signify this? Do we have to follow this precedent?

> `data.relationships.variable-options.data[].attributes.options` | Any[] | | A list of allowed values for the variable.

Reviewer 2: Suggestions made for default values

  --request PATCH \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/no-code-modules/nocode-9HE91XDNY3faePn2
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "nocode-9HE91XDNY3faePn2",
    "type": "no-code-modules",
    "attributes": {
      "enabled": true,
      "version-pin": "1.0.1"
    },
    "relationships": {
      "organization": {
        "data": {
          "id": "hashicorp",
          "type": "organizations"
        },
        "links": {
          "related": "/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp"
        }
      },
      "registry-module": {
        "data": {
          "id": "mod-2aaFrmRPZs2N9epr",
          "type": "registry-modules"
        },
        "links": {
          "related": "/api/v2/registry-modules/mod-2aaFrmRPZs2N9epr"
        }
      },
      "variable-options": {
        "data": [
          {
            "id": "ncvaropt-fcHDfnZ1EGdRzFNC",
            "type": "variable-options"
          },
          {
            "id": "ncvaropt-dZMfdh9KBcwFjyv2",
            "type": "variable-options"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/no-code-modules/nocode-9HE91XDNY3faePn2"
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Read a No-Code-enabled module's properties

Reviewer: I don't think we need to specify "enabled" here because you state it below:
```suggestion
## Read a No-Code Module's Properties
```

`GET /no-code-modules/:id`

Parameter | Description
--- | ---
`:id` | The unique identifier for a No-Code-Allowed module.

Use this API to read the details of an existing No-Code-Allowed module.

> The [API call that enables for no-code provisioning for a module](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-within-an-organization) returns that module's unique identifier.

Reviewer: Same as above:
```suggestion
The [API call that enables no-code provisioning for a module](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-within-an-organization) returns that module's unique identifier.
```

> The unique identifier for the No-Code-Allowed module was returned in the response to [the API call that enabled the module for No-Code Provisioning](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-for-an organization).

Reviewer: Might need to to tweak this link if you accept the title rename suggestion above:
```suggestion
The [API call that enables for no-code provisioning for a module](#allow-no-code-provisioning-of-a-module-for-an organization) returns that module's unique identifier.
```

| Status  | Response                                     | Reason                                                         |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "no-code-modules"`) | Successfully read the no-code module.

> | [400][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Invalid `include` parameter                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [400][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Invalid `include` parameter.                                    |
```

> | [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Not found, or user unauthorized to perform action |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Not found, or the user is unauthorized to perform this action. |
```

> | [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Malformed request body (missing attributes, wrong types, etc.) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Malformed request body (e.g., missing attributes, wrong types, etc.). |
```

| [500][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Internal system failure.                                   |

### Query Parameters

[This endpoint uses our standard URL query parameters](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#query-parameters). Remember to percent-encode `[` as `%5B` and `]` as `%5D` if your tooling doesn't automatically encode URLs.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra white line:
```suggestion
```

> | [500][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Internal system failure                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [500][] | [JSON API error object][]                    | Internal system failure.                                   |
```

> [These are standard URL query parameters](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#query-parameters); remember to percent-encode `[` as `%5B` and `]` as `%5D` if your tooling doesn't automatically encode URLs.

Reviewer: Adding a suggestion for clarity in the first sentence:
```suggestion
[This endpoint uses our standard URL query parameters](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#query-parameters). Remember to percent-encode `[` as `%5B` and `]` as `%5D` if your tooling doesn't automatically encode URLs.
```

Author: Your suggestion does improve the clarity here. FYI this sentence is taken verbatim from the `_template.mdx` file in this folder, which I used as the framework for structuring the docs consistently. Maybe that template ought to be adjusted?

Parameter | Description
--- | ---
`include` | List related resource to include in the response.

### Available Related Resources

> This GET endpoint can optionally return related resources, if requested with [the `include` query parameter](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#inclusion-of-related-resources). The following resource types are available:

Reviewer: Suggestion for active voice:
```suggestion
This GET GET endpoint can optionally return related resources if you request them with [the `include` query parameter](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#inclusion-of-related-resources). The following resource types are available:
```

Author: ```suggestion
This GET endpoint can optionally return related resources if you request them with [the `include` query parameter](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#inclusion-of-related-resources). The following resource types are available:
```
